this video is brought to you by
Squarespace as diversity becomes more
and more of a sticking point in our
social landscape discourse around
representation follows close behind
there is a precedent for developing an
incorrect narrative around romanticized
historical events presenting sentiments
that simply don't represent a community
as a whole and struggling to actively
showcase visible representation or
understand what qualifies as visible
representation and of course when you do
get representation right you actually
have to go to the right lengths to
promote it just like you would any other
property but that said it's not like
good representation doesn't exist
usually when the people who are being
represented get to make their own stuff
it tends to be well-received sometimes
not whether I agree with the response or
not but usually if you exist within the
queer Community you generally have a
better understanding of how to Showcase
these people what matters to them what
their values are and what you can even
make fun of without insulting everyone
and believe me the queer Community has a
heap of that for instance transmen and
enbs for some reason really like rats
like pet rats a lot of them feel this
way and nobody knows why though for
people who are not queer themselves but
who do want to create queer characters
there are a range of challenges that
they face such as limited perspective
straight riters by virtue of their own
sexual Orient ation likely don't have
firsthand experience with the unique
challenges emotions and nuances that
queer individuals face and cultural
sensitivity and accuracy straight
writers might lack this cultural
sensitivity leading to
misrepresentations or inaccurate
depictions that fail to capture the
essence of queer lives the potential for
unintentional insensitivity can arise
from a lack of research or an
overreliance on current mainstream media
representations there's also the fear of
offending this fear may lead them to
tiptoe around important issues or
sanitize the experience of queer
characters resulting in narratives that
lack depth and emotional resonance and
there's stereotyping and tokenism when
queer characters are reduced to being
nothing but their sexual orientation or
gender identity becoming defined solely
by this one part of themselves rather
than their personalities aspirations and
complexities and this is perhaps true of
all categories of diverse characters
however there is a recent Buzz around
queerness both from consumers and
producers and through this Buzz we've
seen the Good the Bad and the Ugly and
while queer creators are finally getting
a chance to tell their own stories
straight creators can struggle to
deliver these same
messages so that being
said why is Neil gaming so good at it
this video is brought to you by
Squarespace Squarespace is an all-in-one
web design and hosting platform that
makes it easy for you to create a
website and Market your brand with
industry-leading website templates that
are easy to customize you don't need any
design experience to show the world your
best digital self Squarespace also makes
it easy to keep in touch with your
audience or customers with their
expertly designed email templates that
are just as easy to customize as their
websites you can follow up with
customers or just keep your audience in
the loop with your latest updates that's
why we're launching a newsletter with
certain social media sites going the way
of the dodo we wanted a way to keep in
touch with our amazing subscribers and
Squarespace gives us the perfect way to
do that in fact you can sign up for our
newsletter right now which will include
links to new videos progress updates for
T's pictures as well as reviews articles
and so much more you can sign up for
free at our Squarespace website
jameson.com you can head to
squarespace.com right now for a free
trial and when you're ready to launch
your site go to squarespace.com
jameses that's j m s to save 10% off of
your first purchase of a website or
domain start showing the world how
amazing you are today with
Squarespace Neil Gaiman typifies a sort
of literary polymorph where in spite of
his cultural impact he has written or
contributed to a total of only 11 novels
however factoring in his work in
screenplays tele plays Comics children's
books and non-fiction Gaiman has a
considerable library of work including
the creation of a certain dark-haired
magical boy with an owl familiar which
was suspiciously published through DC
Comics 7 years prior to Harry Potter
hitting the
shelves must be magic granted I say only
11 novels as if even that isn't
impressive whereas once it was not
considered out of the ordinary to be
invited into literary cannon with far
less than 11 published works that's
usually not possible today unless of
course one comes from money or is the
one new author of a decade that the
publishing industry has decided to Rally
behind but especially as far as
high-profile writers go Gaiman has
peppered his library of works with a
broad range of diverse characters
representing a myriad of Life
Experiences similar to the forced
wokeness accusations that were hurled at
the rings of power which focused more on
gender and race than the broad changes
to the characters and mythology the
Netflix adaptation of gamon's iconic
Sandman series was given the same
criticism from the predictable kinds of
people the displeasure at seeing queer
experiences on the screen clearly
indicated that these particular critics
hadn't read The Source material maybe
they just looked at the pictures G
Renown as a writer truly began in 1990
when he co-authored good Omens with
literary giant Terry pratchet according
to Legend Neil pitched the idea to
pratchet offand at a convention to which
pratchet seemed agreeable though Neil
assumed that he was just being let down
gently and put it out of his mind
sometime later Neil got a phone call
from pratchet who wanted to know how
this misplaced Antichrist idea might
play out in so far as the author's
developed this Cosmos neither angels nor
demons have sex organs nor do they
actively seek out sexual intercourse and
and by all accounts gender is more or
less described based on how an observer
might categorize them regardless even of
that this he they angel demon Duo are so
incredibly married it was basically a
joke even at the time of good oman's
publication while many fans of the show
and even of the book were quick to
describe a Zera which is a fictional
name approved by spell Che believe it or
not and Crowley as a gay couple it was
indeed exasperated by gaiman's
description of the tale as a love story
and yet both God the narrator of the
story and Gaiman are hesit to use the
term gay to describe them but unlike
your average Network Executive Press
Conference or corporate social media
account this explanation is queerer than
the typical just friends copout the
narrator describes that most people who
encounter aerail May describe him as
quote gayer than a tree full of monkeys
on nitrous oxide but does not describe a
zerel as gay himself gaimon elaborated
that the love story between a zerel and
Crowley is not gay because neither of
them are men one is an Angel and the
other a demon neither of whom whom are
beings that have sex traits and any
ambiguity in the first story is
dismissed in the second you're a good
lad not actually either this suggests
that any element of gender expression is
the result of self-identification or a
matter of how Others May observe them
furthermore the celestial beings seem to
refer to each other by they them from an
authorial standpoint this is a complex
understanding of gender and sexuality
that is even a little bit theoretical
for many within the community itself if
there is no element of sex or G gender
present in a romantic pairing how can we
describe the sexual orientation of the
couple the unfortunate thing about the
term homosexual is that it describes not
only the gender of the subject's
attraction but the gender of the subject
as well
homosexual same gender attraction you
need to have a gender to be attracted to
the same gender as the public begins to
understand and accept a separation of
sex and gender many of these sexual
labels fail to describe what they are
meant to an amab trans non-binary person
who is attracted to high feminine gender
traits among gay
men we don't have language to describe
that yet factor in that both zerel and
Crowley have a very ambiguous set of
gendered mannerisms and expressions
Gaiman has stated that they don't really
know what gender is about but they do
their best to emulate it to their own
understanding humans are weird and
that's how it works I knew that
ironically this may actually be an
instance where homosexual actually would
apply but even that depends entirely on
if homosexual is compatible with asexual
homoromantic but again in terms of
gender non-conformity the gender of one
person is not relevant to describe the
attraction to another out of all the
psychological terminology that came out
of the 1800s that has become archaic why
are we still holding on to these terms
as if our personhood depends on them
don't answer that I I I know why I've
tried to make that video like seven
times now you know how God likes sevens
however instead of engaging in a debate
about how we identify Cosmic beings
trying their best to humanely live their
their best eternities Gaiman simply
avoids the discussion altogether not
that he excludes queerness from a
reading of these characters they're
certainly not straight but their place
in queerness is not worth categorizing
Beyond queer not even LGBT because they
fit none of those categories the first
season of good Omens was a show that had
a couple our angel and demon of some
Renown at the center of it though no
confirmation came in season one anyone
with a brain could see it and season 2
became a queer show and in order to
deter an investigation from Heaven
Crowley and airell need to Stage a love
story Maggie is a lonely record
saleswoman who has a strong crush on nah
the overworked owner of a cafe nah
however is already in a relationship we
never meet her partner but through text
messages we have a clear indication that
not everything's coming up Rose is there
Nina's girlfriend is so intensely
jealous it likely crosses into emotional
abuse we aren't put on any kind of
pedestal here we have the same kind of
relationship problems that straight
people have however as much as Maggie is
Lovesick and nah is stressed out over a
relationship that turns into a messy
breakup neither of them are defined by
their attraction to the other their
personhood is primary over their
queerness and neither are justified by
romantic attractions Nina smartly
decides that immediately after a breakup
is not a good time to get emotionally
invested with another woman which is
sound psychological advice coming out of
Fantastical queer fiction good on you
this is secondary only to the romance
between aerail and Crowley which is
split up in the end because the Damned
Angel suddenly gets a heart on for a
promotion you idiot we could have been
us gaimon has smaller roles for
queerness as well a sketchy Scotsman
openly professes that he uses his phone
only for grinder and the owner of a
magic shop references an anniversary
with his partner who he brings to aerl
Street Business Association meeting
partner being an apt genderless
descriptor because his partner is
visibly androgynous in fact throughout
the season characters typically stick to
non-gender descriptions of relations and
individuals something that I imagine
most people wouldn't even notice unless
they have it pointed out to them and
considering that neither angels nor
demons have gender in the first place
the romance between be's abub and
Gabriel would be queer in spite of their
actor's genders as far as what I've read
of gaimon's works this seems to be by
far his queerest and well I'm not
complaining this level of brazen
in-your-face queerness is a a little bit
out of character for
him though he does his best to quietly
present visible queer identities without
making a big fuss about throwing in
surprised lesbians he likes troubled
lesbians and people without genders one
of the greatest strengths of Gan as a
writer is his signature quiet Nuance in
Pros even when he's conveying important
messaging or perhaps in regard to queer
representation he may not have realized
just how important that was beginning in
Sandman there is of course desire in the
fictional world of Sandman in
conjunction with the actual deities of
our human history there exist seven
beings who represent Universal aspects
of The Human Experience they are shape
shifters whose physical appearance
changes depending upon who is observing
them certainly makes it easy for artists
and casting directors functioning as a
family of siblings rather than a proper
Pantheon they are called the endless and
endless though they may be there is an
order to their births Destiny the eldest
predates the existence of all life and
functions as a constant for all things
in the universe and Cosmic Realms people
beings deities and celestial bodies
whereas the other endless except for
perhaps death have limitations on their
Authority death is the second visually
inspired by cinnamon Hadley death
existed the moment the first living
thing was born and will vanish when the
last living thing closes its eyes makes
sense as death represents the cosmic
determinism of all living things in
spite of her simple Gothic appearance
her manner is more akin to a death Dua
or paliative care nurse and while she is
a universal her only rule is that all
things end but can be flippant about
when that happens dream the central
figure of the Sandman series though not
always the protagonist was born next he
represents higher thought processes that
living things experience mostly
imagination dream's domain seems to be
where reality and Imagination intersect
what from The Real World is brought into
his realm and how things from his realm
can become reality and how everyone is
if he isn't running a tight ship
gods and other deities are suggested to
have derived from dreams realm or not
it's fairly vague probably deliberately
the next is referred to to as the
prodigal who has been wandering for some
time and almost nobody knows where he is
younger still are the twins desire being
the secondary antagonist of the Netflix
series The behind the-scenes string
puller of all things disturbing
desire was and has remained non-binary
though back in the day desire was
referred to as it rather than they them
in the Netflix series in a mythological
and literary history of depicting the
personification of lust and sex as a
contemporarily beautiful woman this
speaks to a masculine Centric Society
where the only individuals for whom
desire matters is men to make desire
either or any gender would exclude the
people for whom that particular
expression of physical beauty is not the
object of desire there's also an
argument to be made that might suggest
that desire's pronouns are better as it
because desire and fetishization are
dehumanizing but desire the character is
also the personification of even
nonsexual desire if you want something
or anything no matter how badly this is
desire's realm desire's twin is despair
kind of a younger twin it's complicated
despair is the personification of
exactly what she seems to be the gateway
to her realm is mirrors and her sigil is
a hook very fitting visual indicators
the youngest of the Endless is delirium
who was born Delight again it's
complicated and everyone in the family
respects both desire's pronouns and
deliriums name change it's difficult to
say how faithful Sandman will remain to
its source material we only have one
season adapted from two story arcs and a
large number of the comics are one-off
stories about humans who encounter the
endless though the streaming series was
exceptionally true to the comics
published three decades prior and I'm
sorry to you Neil if you're watching
this for my overuse of words and phrases
like years decades illustrious career
long ago inspiration for new generations
plural I don't really like thinking
about how long ago Jurassic Park was
released and how I saw it in theaters
but it's important to recognize the
historical context for how these queer
ideas were being not only teased but
explored in intense taken for granted
ways at a time before the majority of
the viewer base of this video had even
been born sorry again Neil whereas today
we have an almost direct adaptation of
Sandman via streaming and it is deced as
pandering to wokeness whereas it's
basically just the same as it was in the
comics with just a bit more gay though
that said I have a feeling that Gman was
treating the Netflix adaptation as an
opportunity to give Sandman a go over
and bring even more of his initial
Vision to life there is an expressed
comfort with casting black actors for
roles that had been white in the comics
and with showcasing a deeper expression
of the queer experience sorry bro these
teeny tiny sunglasses stay on during sex
then that's okay I'm okay with
that honestly not so Ambiguously Camp
men wearing blackout sunglasses to
conceal weird eyes seems to be a
fixation for gaming and ocular F similes
in general it seems as if all of the
base content from the first two arcs of
Sandman made it into the first season
changes made to this content were
primarily a matter of streamlining the
existing information pacing was smoothed
out or characters were altered or
combined to fit into roles that serve
the plot better John Constantine was
altered into Joanna Constantine riffing
on the fual 18th century character in
later Sandman stories Hector and Lia
were repurposed so that Lia could occupy
a larger role and to allow for more
connecting tissue between characters
Rose's mother was the only character cut
from the plot with laa now occupying
much of that role instead laa absolutely
needed to be here because that dream
baby is important the nightmares brute
and glob were replaced by another
nightmare are entirely G this is the
most significant change as it portends
directly towards character development
for dream that was not present in the
comics at all or at least development
that takes much longer in the comics
it's worth noting however that there is
simply much more Sandman content in the
Netflix series than the corresponding
Comics the existing narrative was beefed
up to flush out a whole season unlike
the Final Fantasy 7 remake however the
padding here doesn't seem as apparent in
fact if you're reading the comics after
watching the series you may find that
some of the most outst ending moments
are missing allog together the padding
in the series outside of the adjustments
I mentioned earlier mesh so well into
the Netflix adaptation because they seem
to be flushing out side plots that
simply were never explored in the comics
though strongly indicated and it may
shock you to know that these expanded
indicated plots were about queer
[Music]
people yes desire slays and the
Corinthian was always gay leaning but
offhand inferences and inuendos and the
comics received a strong followup in the
series not to say that they weren't
there but Rose's foyer to a drag Club
was only really suggested in the comics
whereas Netflix gave it an entire
musical number in drag I mean if you're
going to cast John Cameron Mitchell why
not and not all the praise goes to gam
Alan heinberg was brought on as a
co-writer for the series you can learn
more about him in the power couples
video from February of forever ago
heinberg himself is an openly gay writer
with a Strong pedigree in both comics
and screenwriting giman has always
expressed an open to queer depictions
but the Netflix series likely with the
help of heinberg expanded them a little
or a lot Additionally the gender swap of
Joanna Constantine which was likely done
to sever this from any variant of DC
adapted interconnected universes smart
move to avoid them at all costs at this
point also made her a lesbian a very
messy lesbian my favorite kind of
lesbian granted nothing about the story
was changed except the magical person's
gender yes there are some human elements
that are true to both straight and queer
relationships and that truth is people
are the diner sequence was also
expanded in general but primarily
featuring additional queer people very
messy queer people though certainly even
if we're depicted making mistakes we
ought to recognize that these are the
kinds of mistakes that straight people
also make rose has a gay friend who
Sexes the concept of inhuman masquerade
and consumption of identity in the
comics the Corinthian like to stick to
murdering gay men and while there were a
lot of gays to unbury making the
Corinthian more indiscriminate about his
victims and adding another gay side
character who just gets to be a person
was a comfortable correction though as
for the Corinthian in general we have a
Serial killing monster who appears as a
gay man oughtn't that have costed a stir
in the queer Community I mean for all
the real life serial killers and mass
Shooters who are straight white men our
cultural Consciousness certainly likes
to hold on to the gay ones and the women
this seems Rife for the kind of content
that would trigger our delicate
snowflake sensibilities especially in a
cultural Echo chamber for which the
choir sings you just can't say anything
anymore with increasingly vivacious
intensity pitching a plot where the
primary antagonist is a Serial killing
gay Andor bisexual presenting man really
ought to have made the woke police put a
stop to this you know I guess that's the
only underfunded police force if this
wave of apparent leftwing censorship was
as strong as critics to cry then Sandman
would have been purged from DC archives
and yet instead Neil Gaiman is held up
by a substantial queer fan base many of
whom celebrate him for exposing them to
certain areas of queerness in the first
place perhaps you can say anything
actually and turns out that how you say
something and who you are to say it is
more important than what is said in the
1990s the Corinthian targeted gays
because police were almost certainly
never going to involve themselves in a
rash of murdered vagrant gay men it was
playing on the reality of the situation
in a very real way however cultural
sensibilities have since shifted but
still he himself is an instance of a
very very bad piece of queer
representation regardless of how we
human people can identify nightmares as
queer which may be gaiman's saving
Nuance here he is a monster taking the
form of a gay man to hunt them and even
though there are a few benign queer
characters in Sandman the deck is
stacked with morally gray or messy queer
characters not to mention desire's role
as the primordial demon twink my
apologies if twink is an unsuitable
descriptor for non-binary people but
I look at them I couldn't exist and
quite frankly to the anti-woke folks
they are right if this was your average
high budget built by committee TV
spectacle series these plot elements
would absolutely get shot down by the
producers on paper these beats are way
too zesty media that explicitly
villainized queer people is held to be
another component of language from the
1990s Executives aren't exactly known
for nuance so they tend to build blanket
rules for dos and downs and yet the
Corinthian and desire are still here and
people may be thirsty for them
regardless the diner lesbian with a
temper is here all of John Constantine's
male messiness is now Joanna's safic
messiness and still gaimon maintains his
staunch Bowie s queer following so if
the woke police did come for Gaiman what
was his get out of jail free
card it's conceptually
simple though actually quite
complicated
the simple explanation is you have to
care a lot and Care is demonstrated not
something that you can just declare
politicians say they care about lots of
things but demonstrate very little when
it comes to problematic queer characters
and for those of us who are queer we
know many problematic queer people this
is not explicitly forbidden but it is
kind of taboo while Gaiman made a bold
start with Sandman he still had an
affectionate portrayal of an
indescribably queer romance and good
Omens generally speaking de
demonstrating positive queer folks in
one work will implore your audience to
read new ons into the messy queers in
another regardless of just those two
Gaiman has been incorporating not only
queer characters but even queer adjacent
themes into his body of work ever since
the most infamous outside of his ear
Fallen Crowley anyway was the notorious
deified gay sex scene in American Gods a
burnt out salesman from the Middle East
struggles with his time in America while
trying to Pedal goods for an ungrateful
family while in a taxi he relates to the
driver how hard it is to keep up a smile
in the land of opportunity the pair
become quite close through the ride the
cab driver it turns out is a Jin who
immigrated to America well provided the
lore of American Gods it was the idea of
a Jin who made the migration a different
version of the same iFit likely still
exists in his homeland it's complicated
anyway they smash turns out they're both
kind of equally dissatisfied with how
things are going the Gin is nowhere to
be found the morning after but has left
his taxi driver's identification on the
nightstand only now with the salesman's
face for the picture an opportunity for
a new life away from his oppressive
family even though it's just a
disconnected vignette in a story it's
still a heartfelt standout moment you
may be deceived into thinking this is
about being gay but it's actually about
being different and alone in a place
with too many people especially in our
post 911 Western cultural stereotype of
the Arabian Peninsula it's significant
to make this the spot for graphic gay X
in this great American novel don't read
anything into it most of the Great
American novels are written by Brits
it's important to remember that at a
period of time when Europe was tying up
women and gay men and throwing them into
reasonably sized ponds to see if they
floated to the surface thereby
indicating their connection to
Witchcraft for which they would then be
removed from the water thoroughly dried
and then burnt at the stake that
Constantinople at the same time was the
cultural Progressive Hub of the world
scientifically culturally
philosophically artistically
it also possessed a massive swath of
Europeans who had fled as refugees from
whatever Inquisition Crusade or ethnic
cleansing was going on in Continental
Europe at the time the reason why I
would say that this and other instances
of gaiman's queer Library perform so
strongly is that there's very little
sensationalism regarding these
characters that is he doesn't really
make a fuss about queer characters where
we appear we're just there there is
nothing about the exchange that says oh
look gay characters they're just
characters and then gay stuff happens
sometimes but mostly they're just
characters who contribute to what he's
trying to say the same purpose he has
for straight characters granted Gan also
includes eluded queer characters in his
books and generally I'm annoyed by
eluded characters however when Coraline
is told from the perspective of a
9-year-old the protagonist isn't really
going to read into why the two bickering
elderly actresses in the basement flat
are living together again I'm only
opposed to the illusion of queerness if
it's a crutch used to present the
illusion to impressionable baby queers
that they're being seen as Gaiman has
demonstrated a comfort level with queer
characters the decision to imply that
these two characters are lesbians is
based off of artistic Vision rather than
an uncertainty about the audience like
with yurian ice taking a moment away
from the narrative flow to specify that
these characters fall under the queer
umbrella would interrupt the underlying
themes if there ought to be a definition
of forc inclusion then that would be it
Coraline is about a child developing the
ability to recognize identity in other
people this woman is my mother because
of EX this other woman who only looks
like my mother is not actually my mother
and as it is a children's book having
more themes presented will detract from
what young readers are meant to take
away from it and this is part of the
consequences of being part of a
community that has been so gaslit into
believing that half- asked inclusion can
qualify as representation any instance
of representation needs to feature that
rough gay sex scene or just doesn't
count there needs to be that soapbox
moment where the gay characters stand up
and make a Love Is Love Speech there
needs to be that gratuitously horny gay
character who is either desperate for a
long-term relationship or hits on
everything incessantly to let the
audience know that he's gay do any of
you realize how many comments I still
get on the urion ice video to this day
aggressively arguing that the anime is
bad representation because you don't see
lips touching during the kiss then again
that video still gets comments from
usually straight women no hating but
still who incessantly deny that there's
any queerness coded or otherwise present
in that series the pressure to exist as
openly gay as possible in fiction has a
toxic translation to real life most gay
people people don't think about their
gayness and ways to perpetuate it
especially because these methods of
self-promotion as established in fiction
Focus around either having or trying to
get a committed boyfriend or persevering
over social pressures and persecution
according to fiction the only two gay
Milestones that matter are coming out
and boyfriend and I have concerns for
this community if we are internalizing
these messages doubling back to good
Omens for a minute how is it possible in
this circumstance for these characters
to fit into clearly cly defined visible
representation they can't SL don't have
sex their genders are complete
anachronistic chaos and they don't
appear to experience physical pleasure
kissing is a gesture neiler angels and
demons have a concentration of nerve
endings in their lips which result in a
pleasant sensation upon physical
stimulation you you make up the rules
about this so I'm just wondering what
would it take for these two to properly
depict gay or queer attitudes I highly
doubt a cosmic entity would go on about
love being love especially when their
relationship revolves around the world
ending or not especially when the
majority of anti-gay discrimination
revolves around persecuting sexual acts
however I would prefer we don't say that
this is bad representation because these
are two very queer characters involved
in a non-sexual romance and since
asexual people do exist believe it or
not I think that's pretty valid and so
no not all representation needs to be
about queer acceptance or normalization
sometimes it's nice to just see yourself
in a quirky character that isn't to say
that's all we need to be sometimes times
we really do need messaging directed at
us and messaging that normalizes us Gan
also happens to have some of that too
though in Sandman no
less granted this is regarding a trans
character and as per contemporary
discussions about appropriate trans
representation there are some pitfalls I
wouldn't want to try and tell trans
people what is or is not good
representation for them though from what
I've read people seem to feel generally
positive about this one Possible season
2 spoilers ahead the game of you Arc of
Sandman follows Barbara Barbie from
season 1 who journeyed with Martin ten
bones to bring the porpentine to the
hierogram and who has since broken up
with Ken she is best friends with Wanda
who is helping her figure out how to
navigate New York City Wanda is trans
and though she never specifies to anyone
I am trans this becomes apparent
throughout dialogue cues Wanda is
talkative and we get a small glimpse
into her trans experience though she
remains externally positive she trusts
Barbara enough to let her dead name slip
though warns Barbara never to use it an
antagonist doesn't seem to approve of
her though she can ignore him though
Gaiman is subtle enough to indicate that
these bigoted remarks and encounters
have an effect on her and by subtle I
mean that she has a dream where Bizarro
aliens are forcing her to choose to be a
man or a woman decisions around gender
affirming surgeries are ultimately at
the decision of the individual to
undertake or not her dream indicates
that she is struggling internally with
the pressure to make a commitment
through the progression of this story
Wanda's Womanhood is routinely
challenged because she is uncomfortable
with the idea of surgery at least at
this point in her life Wanda does die in
the story and while this may fit into a
buried queer Trope it's worth noting
that Wanda does not die because of
bigotry she dies when her building
collapses in a freak hurricane which may
or may not have been caused by
witchcraft it's also worth noting that
Wanda's death is not there to make the
CIS characters react or to make the
audience sad Barbara has already
undergone an emotional Arc and her
appearance at Wanda's Southern funeral
her only New York friend to appear is to
pay respects and cross out Wanda's dead
name on her tombstone and write her name
over it in flamingo pink lipstick
however death has a different function
in the Sandman Series where death is a
character herself and one may argue that
death functions differently in all of
gaimon's Works Gaiman in general is very
nonchalant about death even when a
character dies to propel the plot
there's very little sensation derived
from it sometimes people die in fact in
the graveyard book most of the
characters are dead G and treats death
in fiction as if it is not the end of a
character and this is very literal in
Sandman in this world most people who
die are taken by death to her realm a
place the panels do not take us we
understand that just like any other
character Wanda woke after her death and
was greeted by a compassionate woman to
take her away but death is comfortable
bending the rules just a little bit very
Case by case basis Barbara has a dream
and she remembers from this dream seeing
Wanda Wanda here in death is fully
feminized and no this isn't telling us
that death will make everything better
this is visual language to indicate that
the cosmic forces of the universe
recognize your identity for who you are
it's the same message of the entire
Sandman series emotional reality is more
significant Than Physical reality which
is a hell of a debate to include in a
comic book written by a CIS man like
holy can you imagine any of that
happening today Mark the calendar and
count the days until Wanda appears in a
trailer for an upcoming season of
Sandman and people immediately to cry
everything's being about trans stuff
these days however I did say that this
is a complicated process and gon
especially in the long long ago before I
read it would have had to have had some
real conversations with trans people to
really understand how to convey these
themes the best of intentions is not
enough and in spite of Good Intentions
things can go arai a category of that
contains Thomas Harris in his novel
Silence of the Lambs the trans
representation
is lacking
the movie especially because it offers
no insight into trans attitudes at all
in spite of depicting the villain the
way they did would you me the book
actually goes to Great length to
describe trans women and in fact
exonerate them hctor goes so far as to
suggest that Jame gum cannot be trans
because they are violent Harris
describes trans women as people who
transition to being women to live as
women and for no other reason but
regardless of the fact that Harris does
go out of his way to try and say the
trans people are okay what is depicted
in the book sends a very harmful message
I would claim that Thomas Harris is
someone who is trying to do a good thing
because the novel contains unambiguous
language which declares that trans women
are not violent or antisocial without
exception even if he kind of failed at
presenting that this is what he wrote I
would contrast that with something like
Ace of vura which is actively malicious
belittling and hateful forgive the
archaic phrasing but Hannibal says that
b is not not a real transsexual but he
thinks he is he tries to be he's tried
to be a lot of things I expect gum was
described as a disqualified outlier who
fetishized Womanhood rather than someone
who felt that they actually were a woman
if that makes sense it doesn't really
it's an e for effort situation really
because there is a lot wrong with this
yes Harris seems to want to implore his
audience to observe trans people with
more empathy while presenting a villain
who is trans identifying and without
incorporating any other trans characters
into the story whatsoever not even to
counterbalance bill this is all we got
and what protrans rhetoric there was in
the novel was not so present in the film
in conjunction Harris incorporates a
deeply triggering element of the trans
experience in the book assist doctor
making claims about what does or does
not qualify as Womanhood there is a
precedent for Built Tough trans women
who have to pretend to be deeply
invested in pretty flowery dresses to
get past their doctors contemporary
queer Theory and this is even presid in
gan's discourse around Wanda holds that
gender is self-defined the only
qualification to be a man woman or other
is for you to feel that way trying to
justify your gender to a medical
professional has been historically one
of the most arduous parts of the trans
experience even though I would not
recommend diying your endocrine system
without a medical professional I feel
the onus needs to be put on the medical
community to establish more trust many
Physicians are working hard to mend this
Gap yes but there's still progress to be
made a lot Harris however is an torious
shut in it's clear that he garnished his
information from academic sources rather
than the living breathing component of a
culture if you're trying to represent
people then the people you want to
represent need to be where you start
however good intentions alone cannot and
should not exonerate Herm that was
brought into the world so if just caring
isn't enough how much more complicated
does it need to
be the more complicated ated reality of
good representation is that it's very
difficult cocktail of empathy as it
intersects with the willingness to
listen a compulsion to profess the
ability to reflect on certain people and
situations there lies an ability to
isolate what elements of those
experiences are endearing to reflect
back upon those people while having an
understanding of what is or can be a
universal experience and what is or can
be fictionalized for instance when it
comes to men writing women there was
either not a a whole lot of attention
given to female characters in the first
place or failed attempts to understand
them Helen of Troy was attributed to
having spurred manalus and sparked the
Trojan War because Paris of Troy was
just so darn pretty that motivation was
so weak even 2004 as Troy had to develop
an entire subplot about how menus was so
toxic that Helen's only recourse was to
leave with the first man who could
smuggle her out of Sparta men literally
have fictionalized women as accessories
to men because historically patriarchal
values in society would Define that as
the role of a woman it was only in the
last century or so that a woman could
open a bank account without a man
signing for it be it her father brother
husband or gay best friend for which he
would still have unbridled access to it
in much of fiction women spend their
time fussing over a man or dramatically
falling into his arms without any
personal goals or motivations except to
be with a particular man even
perceptively strong female characters
like Scarlet O'Hara in the end are
solely focused on a man that isn't to
say that you can't have men who develop
excellent fictional women in history but
at the same time there is no guarantee
that women are going to write excellent
female characters either woman is not a
monolithic experience for which every
aspect of Womanhood is accessible to
every woman no one woman can embody all
the experiences within their gender but
when you belong to one particular
experience you may have an easier time
extrapolating on different
manifestations of that experience I can
imagine myself as a different man
because those experiences are
tangentially related to my experiences
it's not that it's more difficult per se
for a CIS man to write a female
character however it does require a
great deal more research empathy and
observation Stephen King is pretty good
at this there's a reason why his first
novel Carrie has become a regular in
feminist Theory classes and queer Theory
watch my video on deep cuts to find out
why he's also great at writing female
villains like with misery but when it
usually comes to villains well that's
rough especially in America audiences
tend to lean towards the idea that the
protagonist is the character whose
values are meant to be emulated the
antagonist by contrast is demon
which typically holds that everything
about the antagonist is a problem and
ought to be shunned back to Gan how is
it that the weird queer kids flock to
him in spite of desire and the
Corinthian or other less than flattering
queer characters especially when he does
not have a great deal of openly queer
Heroes the key there is that these
characters are villains because of their
objectives and motivations but they are
not villains because they're queer and
they are not villains because of their
queerness and it's true of most queer
villains lately too we're beginning to
make a comeback as villains because of
this not so simple trick and truly being
able to have a character's motivations
separated from their identity isn't a
talent every writer has though it's far
from the only important Talent out there
but for those who can deliver it
generally makes for a better character
to have intersectional compartments of
their
personhood the secret to representation
at its core is not to represent end if
representation is the goal it's going to
suck the objective needs to be life the
author is not to look at themselves as a
Creator but a gatekeeper their role is
to allow identities to be found where
they are in real life to show the
hypothetical lives these people may lead
to create an imagined version of this
person based on the kinds of people who
live like this and it can't come from
nothing the best fiction is plagiarism
of life even if it's fantasy especially
if it's fantasy because if your
protagonists are jousting on griffins or
discovering Ancient Aliens under the ice
caps the reader needs something human to
grab on to they really can only truly
imagine something incredible the more
they can imagine a real person doing it
I highlighted the queer element of
American Gods very deliberately it was a
queer reference to a matter of a
pansexual deity that is very heavily
supported by documented historical
reality given the current day cultural
climate of this world that reality is
selectively forgotten we are disinclined
to portray or even remember that because
it does not align with our present day
perspective of the world gaimon's
positive betrayal of queer people begins
with this he forces others to remember
what they willfully forget it seems to
be part of the quintessential queer
experience if others like me had existed
then others like me must exist now giman
works to spell out a Fantastical realm
of Dreams where reality waffles and
Imagination runs wild all things are
possible because the only rules that
exist in this place are the rules you
bring to it we spend one-third of our
lives in this world of Dreams why
wouldn't we want to spend it all there
surely we can imagine a world where all
the Dow Grand challenges of our lives
and societies become Petty grievances
that can be ignored we can be anything
do anything so much more than the
limitations of our own world where we
must share the dream of a sleeping God
our realities are at odds with other
others and an absolute truth for one is
not an absolute truth for all however
there is a pivotal weakness to the
dreaming and a pivotal limitation to
dreams Powers though vast they may seem
dreams are lonely places when we sleep
we are solitary save for the odd ghosts
drifting through through our dreams we
confront the possibility of what the
world could be the world as we would
make it if we could the world as we
would most fear it to become dreams
cannot be our reality because Dreams Are
Meant to reflect reality and we can look
at them as Idle entertainment or we
could think of it like slipping into a
different existence in a change room
just to see how it looks though the
advantage of Dreams is that we can make
them real in a fashion we can take what
we like and work to make it true we can
ward off what we fear we can explore the
fringes of our imagination in a way our
waking Minds would dismiss as Idol
fantasy the extent of the world we want
to create doesn't need to end in dreams
dreams are a mirror that can reflect the
future for all that we create our dreams
without thinking it's still possible
though challenging to create our
reality though it is easier to create a
world we all dream of
together having a dream is not teasing a
reality that could never
be it becomes an
obligation to make it come
true this video was brought to you by
our patrons like these awesome people
you see on screen right now if you'd
like to support the channel and help us
keep making queer content on YouTube
which is not the best at promoting queer
content plus get to watch some of these
videos up to 6 months early you can sign
up at the link in the pinned comment
below and if you like this video don't
forget to like And subscribe thanks to
all of our patrons and thank you for
watching
[Music]
I
yeah